# COVID19

This is some homebrew COVID-19 analysis for the United States using publicly available data (sources listed below). I was frustrated at having to continually bounce around to several websites to find the stats/graphs of interest to me, so I thought I'd just make my own plots that put it all together.

Obligatory Disclaimer: I am not an epidemiologist, or a medical professional, or really anything of note. But one time I beat Contra without using the cheat code, so there's that.


How to Use:

Look in the jpgs folder for images. They are organized by state and there are a few nationwide plots at the bottom. I recommend starting with your home county's plot and then comparing it to the corresponding STATEWIDE plot. You may also want to compare with the national level plots, or look at the state/county level plots for locations you have friends and family, or a destination you are considering traveling to. It's definitely not necessary to read the rest of this README, but may be useful if you have questions.


How to Interpret County Level Plots:

The daily tally of new confirmed cases is shown by the skinny black line, but it is usually more informative to look at the 7 day average shown by the thick cyan line. This is because there are often day-of-week reporting artifacts (e.g. fewer reports on weekends). The thick red line shows the cumulative number of confirmed deaths, and the legend gives some cumulative per capita stats.


How to Interpret STATEWIDE Plots:

I spent the most time on the STATEWIDE plots because different regions can vary wildly and I couldn't find data granular enough to do some of the more interesting analysis at the county level. These are probably the most useful plots for decision making purposes. There are actually 4 subplots, described in more detail below.

Upper Left: The black and cyan lines again show the trend of confirmed cases, similar to the county level plots. The blue line is an estimate of the true number of infections using a model developed by Youyang Gu (creator of the excellent covidprojections.com). It is a function of the number of confirmed cases and the test positivity rate (7 day averages for both). The legend has the cumulative per capita stat for confirmed cases and an estimate of what percentage of the state's population has been infected so far.

Upper Right: The red line again shows the cumulative deaths, similar to the county level plots. The blue line is an estimate of what percentage of the state's population was currently infected on the given day. It assumes a 15 day infection length per Youyang Gu's model. 15 days feels conservative to me but then I reread the Disclaimer above and decided I should probably shut up. Note that there are two vertical axes for this plot; the left side one is for the % infected, the right side one is for deaths.

Lower Left: Shows a model of the Effective Reproduction Number (R_t) estimated from cases across a 20th percentile to 80th percentile range of estimates. This number represents the average number of people each infection will spread to. If it is less than 1, the spread of the virus is slowing, otherwise the spread is accelerating.

Lower Right: This curve attempts to show how the level of risk increases as the number of people one interacts with increases. It is something I haven't seen elsewhere on the internets, although maybe I just haven't looked hard enough. Note that the x-axis is not time in this plot, but rather number of people interacted with. If one assumed that the % currently infected in the state was roughly constant over a certain time period (consult the Upper Right plot to see how reasonable this assumption is), one could tally up the number of distinct non-household people interacted with as the x-coordinate and the corresponding y-coordinate of the curve is the % chance one interacted with an infected person over that time period. Of course this is a simplification in several ways, not least because of county level regional variance, but it's a starting point, and if your county is doing better/worse than the state in general then the risk would be lower/higher respectively. The curve is generated by inputting the most recent estimate of % infected from the Upper Right plot into the binomial cumulative distribution function.


How to Interpret NATIONWIDE Plots:

The CASES plot shows the same information as the county level plots (see above). The DEATHS plot shows daily confirmed deaths, a 7 day average, and there is a cumulative deaths per capita stat in the legend.


Coda:

I sure did type the word plot a lot. Please send along any commentary/criticism/ideas for extensions to scheidguy@gmail.com


References:

County level cases/deaths/population: usafacts.org/visualizations/coronavirus-covid-19-spread-map/

Test positivity: covidtracking.com

Model for estimate of true number of infections: covid19-projections.com/

R_t based on cases: rt.live